A basic robotic arc welding system is formed by two subsystems: the welding equipment delivering the energy from the welding power source to the workpiece, and the robot providing relative positioning of the heat source and the workpiece. Normally six-axis industrial robots comprising a three-axis lower arm and a three-axis wrist are used, since they enable the welding torch mounted at the wrist to achieve all the positions necessary for three-dimensional welding. Traditionally, general purpose industrial robots are employed, carrying arc welding torches as end effectors. 
Sensing technologies designed for welding and its automation are the essential elements for enabling this desired level of control. The sensors are applied to observe and measure process parameters, acting as the sources of input to the control system. By acquiring and analysing the input information from the sensors, the control system adapts output of the robotised welding process in accordance with the defined welding procedure specifications. 
There are various types of sensors available for robotic arc welding applications. Depending on their functions, the sensors are classified into two categories: process and geometrical. The former measure the process parameters of the robotic welding process (eg arc voltage, current, wire feed speed and torch rotation), which determine the stability of the process. The latter measure the weld joint geometry (eg gap sizes, weld size changes, deviation from the nominal path and orientation changes) and are used for weld searching, seam tracking and real-time adaptive welding.
The primary benefit of robotic arc welding is the production of high-quality welds in a shorter cycle time, with manufacturing flexibility another major advantage. Through extensive application in many manufacturing industry sectors, robotic welding has been developed to a mature production method. Strong industrial need continues to drive the rapid development of robotic arc welding and associated technologies to overcome technical difficulties and expand their capability.
